Let's now start from the very beginning by creating our secrets.
Now, there's a few different ways you can do this.
If I enlarge the project panel here on premiere, we can see that the frame rate of our footage here,
mainly it's twenty nine point nine seven.
That's the average frame rate for most smartphones.
Some of them in here are slightly different frame rates.
I think that's because they came from.
OK, yeah, that's because they were boomerangs from Instagram.
So it's going to be a different frame rate.
That's not that big of a deal.
And then we can also see here our resolution.
See for this scenario, I shot all this footage vertical.
So yours will either likely be 10, 18 by 19, 20.
That's 10 18 pixels wide by nine, 19, 120 pixels vertical.
The standard 16 by nine aspect ratio is the exact opposite, which is 19, 20 by 10 eight.
I know that I'm going to want to do it as a vertical aspect ratio so that it'll show up on social media
as the vertical format, just like the way you hold your phone vertically.
So what I'm going to do is choose the video file that has the frame rate and the resolution that I know
I want the rest of my sequence to be.
And the reason we're doing that is because whatever sequence settings you have when you drag in your
other footage, it's going to basically adhere to those original sequence settings.
Makes sense.
OK.
So what I'm going to do is click that video file that I want the sequence from.
I'm going to right click it and I'm going to click new sequence from click.
So now what this did is two things.
It brought in my video file into my new sequence.
And it default labeled my sequence the name of the video file that I used to create that sequence.
So we want to do something here.
And that thing we want to do is title this sequence, as you can see with the little symbols that these
are all video files.
That's a boomerang.
So it shows up as a slightly different video file icon.
And this icon here is the sequence icon.
Now, it's a little bit confusing, just taking a glance at this.
We can't really find our main sequence very quickly.
So what we always want to do is title our sequence generally.
I personally title it main sequence.
You'll see why we do that.
But you can title it main edit, you know, main footage, whatever you want it to be.
And now what I'm going to do is drag that sequence outside of the footage folder and to keep things
even more organized.
We're going to make a sequences folder, because as we build this out, you're going to find out that
we're going to have multiple different sequences, especially the more complex your edits get.
OK.
So let's go to our main sequence here.
You can see we have our first video file that's dropped into our edit.
Now, if we go to our footage or simply going to highlight the rest of our video files from our footage
folder, and we're going to drag that in as well.
OK, so as you can see, like I was mentioning, some of the video files are different settings.
That's why we chose the sequence, the that's why we chose the file that we wanted to create the sequence
settings from.
But the ones that were different aren't fitting.
So the next step to fix that is to highlight these files.
And the easiest way to do it is to scale it, to frame size.
What that's just saying is you're saying that I want the computer to take the size of this other stuff
that doesn't match the sequence settings.
So this is confusing, but it all makes sense.
Doesn't match the sequence settings you click.
Scale this frame size or set the frame size.
Boom.
That's going to automatically snap it to fit the rest of your sequence.
OK.
And I'm going to kind of just skip forward ahead here and see if there's any other ones that aren't
matching.
And yet we have this one here.
It looks like it was shot on a different phone.
So I'm going to hit scale to frame size.
And I think there's one more here.
And I'm going to hit scale to frame size.
Now, you can see that this did something interesting here, because this is a normal horizontal aspect
ratio clip here.
What it did is it scaled the edges of the video to the edges of the sequence.
Now, that's a problem in this case, because if it was rotated this way and it scaled it up, it would
have fit perfectly right.
But this is shot at a different aspect ratio.
So when I hit scale to frame size, it's still leaving these black bars at the bottom and the top of
the screen.
So in this very specific scenario, this is where you will select that clip, go up to motion and you'll
scale it up manually.
As you can see.